# Initial Context

- **Chapter:** 6 (Authentication)
- **Lesson:**  12 (Refresh Tokens)

## Notes

### First impressions on Refresh Tokens

My first impressions of this task, and not just from the course author's intentions but my own twist on it, is that we're getting deeper into vitally important territory for any meaningful system, and _here be dragons_!

The course requires us to retain refresh tokens. I'm inclined to say that this is where my in-memory repository becomes a liability, even if it's only used in testing. Keeping things in memory was always going to be too brittle for the API, which _MUST_ be stateless for reasons of site reliablity engineering.

That said, this whole security model, with its embedded identity, reminds me a little too much of foxes guarding the hen house. How are we protecting this application, and all its users, safely nestled in the back-end database where all the goodies are? Why, with this application of course! This kind of thing kept me up at night in a previous life.

I'd like to see a comment in the course of how this is not a "valid choice" for certain applications. Yes it's fine for a course, but not a good idea in production financial services. And given how often people re-use identities and passwords, creating a disclosure risk at your bank when you sign up for some random Internet game, that should be noted someplace. I've posted a comment to the authors on Lesson 5: `Types of Authentication`.

The question is, which way should I go here? I don't think it's time to introduce the separation of concerns I've always felt was needed, keeping identity storage away from application storage. First thoughts on where refresh tokens should live, when I get around to doing my initial SRE-Complete reference architecture: [Valkey GLIDE](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/valkey-io/valkey-glide/go/v2@v2.3.1)

### Implementation Thoughts

For today, I want to take a step back from simply adding incrementally and do a proper gap analysis. What do I have, and what do I need?

**Have**:
- A `User` struct, which currently contains a token, but not the password we're storing in Postgres. The `User` has a JSON mapping.
- A `UserCredentials` struct, which relates the `User` to a strongly hashed password. There is no JSON serialization for this internal entity.

**Need**:
- A way to save, check, revoke, and delete one or more refresh tokens (I think of them as user sessions)
- The ability to return a new access token given a good one in a refresh token request (in a header)
- A way to pass the black-box tests in the lesson
- A decision: do I even track sessions in Postgres, or do I walk the talk on maintainability and separation of concerns?

**Nice to have**:
- The future ability to support multiple user sessions (i.e. across devices)
- The future ability to list and revoke sessions
- An SRE-friendly internal API, one that suggests a solution later, e.g. ValKey
- A Deny List for access tokens associated with revoked refresh keys (enables protection of high-value back-ends)

My first (dumb) thought was to put the RefreshToken in `UserCredentials`, simply because the structure was already needed for my in-memory repository from Chapter 6 Lesson 1, but that immediately raised my security antennae. First, I don't feel right putting credentials in my token store, and second, it's a different entity than a credential. Instead I'm creating a `UserSession` struct, and I'm referencing its ID in a one-to-many relation named `SessionID` in User.

It feels wrong having an access token in the domain `User`. I recall doing that for serialization reasons, since I was returning a `domain.User`. That was me, in a hurry again. I think that decision needs a new struct, with something like `LoginResponse` in the `httpapi` adapter, and both the access token and the refresh token can go there.

### Later the same day

I used a naming convention for the httpapi module based on method, endpoint, and request or reply. So I have `PostLoginRequest` and `PostLoginResponse` structs now. Since they're in the adapter layer, they can be decorated with JSON mappings, and I was able to remove those mappings from the domain entity. Very happy, and it was pretty easy.