# Initial Context

- **Chapter:** 5 (Storage)
- **Lesson:**  6 (Create Chirp)

## Notes

I _finally_ getting around to the next lesson. I can't believe how long it has been. Partial blame must go to tax season ... but that's a dodge. Check out the dates on my `goose` migrations:

```bash
make sql-status
goose status
2026/05/06 07:49:18     Applied At                  Migration
2026/05/06 07:49:18     =======================================
2026/05/06 07:49:18     Sun Apr  5 18:23:03 2026 -- 20260405121149_add_users.sql
2026/05/06 07:49:18     Wed May  6 11:49:09 2026 -- 20260506111648_add_chirps.sql
```

If I was getting paid to do this, I'd definitely be packing up my desk. I should also say that I'm not 100% convinced the extra layers I've put in place would make a positive contribution to software quality, and I'm pretty sure other developers would push back.

I sure got a lot out of the extra work over the month, even if progress on this one deliverable was laughable. Question is: do I think it was worth it? I definitely understand more than I would have if I'd blindly followed the course. That's valuable to me.

And I might have also learned something about my excursions into AI madness. The lesson: the AI will hold your hand all the way off the productivity cliff.

---

## Context: Get Chirp

- **Chapter:** 5 (Storage)
- **Lesson:**  10 (Get Chirp)

By now I've already skipped over a lot of the layered tests I had planned to put in place when adding a new domain entity. Do I go back and fill in now, or just get
to the end of the course?

---

## Context: Authentication with Passwords

- **Chapter:** 6 (Authentication)
- **Lesson:**  1 (Authentication with Passwords)

The way I used a domain interface for User caused some trouble, but I think it was laudable. The response to `/api/login` is the domain User, and we needed to store the password. Serializing the user with its password as a no-go (of course), but we had to store that password somewhere.

This was my first thought:

```go
type User struct {
	ID        uuid.UUID `json:"id"`
	CreatedAt time.Time `json:"created_at"`
	UpdatedAt time.Time `json:"updated_at"`
	Email     string    `json:"email"`
    password  string
}
```

What tripped me up was that the `domain` package didn't export that field, and so I couldn't create records in my `memory` repository. I solved it by splitting out credentials from User in the `memory` repo. 

Here's the domain:

```go
type User struct {
	ID        uuid.UUID `json:"id"`
	CreatedAt time.Time `json:"created_at"`
	UpdatedAt time.Time `json:"updated_at"`
	Email     string    `json:"email"`
}

type UserCredentials struct {
	ID       uuid.UUID
	Password string
}

```

The `memory` repository has a new map of `UUID` to `UserCredentials`, with the same `UUID` also mapping to `User`. The repository implementation is capable of concealing the details, and for `postgres` I was able to do things in a single table, provided I exported a `domain.User` and not a database user.
